===== PAGE 1 =====
JCST Papers
Only for Academic and Non-Commercial Use
Thanks for Reading!
Survey
Computer Architecture and Systems
Artificial Intelligence and Pattern Recognition
Computer Graphics and Multimedia
Data Management and Data Mining
Software Systems
Computer Networks and Distributed Computing
Theory and Algorithms
Emerging Areas
JCST URL: https://jcst.ict.ac.cn
SPRINGER URL: https://www.springer.com/journal/11390
E-mail: jcst@ict.ac.cn
Online Submission: https://mc03.manuscriptcentral.com/jcst
JCST WeChat Twitter: JCST_Journal
Subscription Account LinkedIn: Journal of Computer Science and Technology

===== PAGE 2 =====
Yu JF, Zhang-Li D, Zhang ZY et al. From MOOC to MAIC: Reimagine online teaching and learning through LLM-driv-
en agents. JOURNAL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, 41(1): 394−414, Jan. 2026. DOI: 10.1007/
s11390-025-6000-0, CSTR: 32374.14.s11390-025-6000-0
From MOOC to MAIC: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning
Through LLM-Driven Agents
Ji-Fan Yu1 (于济凡), Daniel Zhang-Li2 (张李牛牛), Zhe-Yuan Zhang2 (张哲源), Yu-Cheng Wang2 (王禹诚)
Hao-Xuan Li3 (黎昊轩), Joy Jia Yin Lim2 (林佳音), Zhan-Xin Hao1 (郝展欣), Shang-Qing Tu2 (涂尚卿)
Lu Zhang1 (张 露), Xu-Sheng Dai1 (戴旭升), Jian-Xiao Jiang1 (蒋建骁), Shen Yang1 (杨 慎)
Fei Qin1 (覃 菲), Ze-Kun Li1 (李泽坤), Bing-Lin Liu2 (刘炳麟), Xin Cong4 (从 鑫)
Bin Xu2 (许 斌), Distinguished Member, CCF, Lei Hou2 (侯 磊), Man-Li Li1 (李曼丽), Juan-Zi Li1 (李涓子)
Hui-Qin Liu1, * (刘惠琴), Yu Zhang1 (张 羽), Zhi-Yuan Liu2, * (刘知远), Distinguished Member, CCF
and Mao-Song Sun2 (孙茂松), Distinguished Member, CCF
1 School of Education, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
2 Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
3 College of AI, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
4 Department of Statistics and Data Science, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
E-mail: yujifan@tsinghua.edu.cn; zlnn23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; zheyuan4@andrew.cmu.edu
wang-yc24@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; hx-li25@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; lin-jy23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
zhanxin_hao@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn; tsq25@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; lou-zhan24@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
dxs23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; jjx23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; yangshen22@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
qinfei.2018@tsinghua.org.cn; li-zk25@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn; lbl23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn;
congxin1995@tsinghua.edu.cn; xubin@tsinghua.edu.cn; houlei@tsinghua.edu.cn; marylee@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
lijuanzi@tsinghua.edu.cn; liuhq@tsinghua.edu.cn; zhangyu2011@tsinghua.edu.cn; liuzy@tsinghua.edu.cn
sms@tsinghua.edu.cn
Received September 30, 2025; accepted December 30, 2025.
Abstract Since the first instances of online education, where courses were uploaded to accessible and shared
online platforms, this form of scaling the dissemination of human knowledge to reach a broader audience has
sparked extensive discussion and widespread adoption. Since personalized learning still holds significant potential
for improvement, new artificial intelligence (AI) technologies have been continuously integrated into this learn-
ing format, resulting in a variety of educational AI applications such as educational recommendation and intelli-
gent tutoring. The emergence of intelligence in large language models (LLMs) has allowed these educational en-
hancements to be built upon a unified foundational model, enabling deeper integration. In this context, we pro-
pose MAIC (Massive AI-Empowered Course), a new form of online education that leverages LLM-driven multi-
agent systems to construct an AI-augmented classroom, balancing scalability with adaptivity. Beyond exploring
the conceptual framework and technical innovations, we conduct preliminary experiments at Tsinghua Universi-
ty, Beijing, one of the leading universities in China. Drawing from more than 100 000 learning records of more
than 500 students, we obtain a series of valuable observations and initial analyses. This project will continue to
evolve, ultimately aiming to establish a comprehensive open platform that supports and unifies research, technol-
ogy, and applications to explore the possibilities of online education in the era of large-model AI. We envision this
platform as a collaborative hub that brings together educators, researchers, and innovators to collectively explore
Regular Paper
Special Issue: Celebrating the 40th Anniversary of JCST
The work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 62407027, the Tsinghua Uni-
versity Initiative Scientific Research Program under Grant No. 2024THZWJC11, and a grant from the Institute for Guo Qiang, Ts-
inghua University.
*Corresponding Author (Hui-Qin Liu provided guidance and advice on educational experiments and theoretical analysis. Zhi-
Yuan Liu guided system architecture and algorithm design.)
©Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences 2026

===== PAGE 3 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 395
the future of AI-driven online education.
Keywords intelligent tutoring system, large language model (LLM), multi-agent system, online education
1 Introduction tion[4]. Since then, platforms such as edX①, which in-
volves institutions such as MIT and Harvard, and
Explicit Background: Evolution for Scalability. The Coursera②, which originates from Stanford, have inte-
evolution of online education stands as a testament to grated learning resources from more than 270
humanity’s relentless pursuit of knowledge, transcend- renowned universities[5, 6]. These platforms have at-
ing the limitations of time and space[1]. From the tracted more than 100 million learners globally, pro-
humble beginnings of oral tradition to the advent of gressively realizing the scalability of online education.
the printed book[2, 3], education has continuously Implicit Motivation: Determination of Adaptivity.
sought ways to expand its reach. However, for cen- However, this paradigm of serving thousands of learn-
turies, the traditional model of education was bound ers from diverse backgrounds through one pre-record-
by the constraints of physical classrooms, limited re- ed video[7] (as shown in Fig.1) struggles to align with
sources, and localized instruction. The dawn of the the educational philosophy of “teaching in accor-
Internet marked a revolutionary shift, heralding the dance with individual aptitudes”[8, 9]. This challenge
age of online education, where the dream of universal has become a significant reason for the subsequent ef-
access to knowledge began to take a tangible form. forts that introduce AI techniques into online learn-
Specifically, the Massive Open Online Course ing. To achieve the adaptivity of learning, a series of
(MOOC) phenomenon marks a significant milestone tasks such as learning path planning[10, 11], course rec-
in the evolution of online education, reflecting both ommendation[12–14], and intelligent tutoring[15, 16]—
technological advancement and educational innova- driven by technologies like recommendation systems
MOOC MAIC
$ 25 000 Less Than $ 2 and 30 min per Course
to Make a Course
60 Hours Personalize: Read:
Writing
Customize the Course Construct Teaching Agenda and KB
Preparing Designing Scripts Course Description
Course Objective
Teaching Style
Teach
Course Content Creation
Video Creation Slides Textbooks
Teacher
Exercises Videos
Teacher Video
Upload: Plan:
Recording Editing
Upload Materials Generate Functions
and Agents
T eacher Agent Classmate Agents
Today, let's talk about Wow! If there are plenty
Watching large language models. of data, how can we
We know that they know the relation to
MOOC Videos learn from a massive certain abilities? Can
amount of data, but ... you explain more?
Students Video
Learn
Doing Offine Let's do a little quiz! Student Based on your quiz
What is the first stage to results, I suggest you
Quiz Mentoring train an LLM? to improve by learning
A. Pre-training; B. SFT; some prerequisite
C. Instruction tuning; courses, such as ...
Student Exercises Teacher D. RLHF
Assistant Agent Analyzer Agent
1 Video for N St udents N Agents for 1 Student
Fig.1. MOOC vs MAIC (Massive AI-Empowered Course) from the aspects of teaching and learning.
①https://www.edx.org/, Jan. 2026.
②https://www.coursera.org/, Jan. 2026.

===== PAGE 4 =====
396 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
and dialogue generation—have been employed to en- and the automated provisioning of associated experi-
hance the student learning experience. ential learning environments. This integrated pipeline
Although these technologies have been applied enables end-to-end AI-assisted authoring of courses,
across various aspects of teaching and learning, the spanning pedagogical content structuring, multi-
significant differences among the supporting tasks be- modal resource synthesis, and computational environ-
fore, during, and after instruction have posed chal- ment orchestration, thus streamlining the scalable
lenges for unifying them under a single deep learning production of AI-centric curricula.
framework[17]. Such fragmentation has, in part, de- Learning. In MOOCs[7], a single set of course ma-
layed the emergence of a new platform where AI and terials is designed to serve thousands of students with
online learning are fully integrated. However, with the diverse backgrounds, and the pace of instruction is
rapid advancement of generative AI[18], large lan- predetermined by instructors, leaving room for im-
guage models (LLMs) have created fresh opportuni- proving personalized adaptation based on individual
ties for AI-powered learning paradigms. Models such student needs[25]. In MAIC, course delivery is au-
as GPT-4[19] and LLaMA[20] possess strong generaliza- tonomously completed by AI instructor agents that
tion capabilities and encapsulate vast parametric dynamically adapt pedagogical strategies in real time,
knowledge, allowing for the flexible configuration of conditioned on multimodal student interaction traces
intelligent agents[21] built upon them. Currently, and latent knowledge state estimation. The system
LLM-driven multi-agent systems[22] have already been further deploys role-specialized AI peers, including
explored for applications such as social simulation[23] teaching assistants and customizable classmates,
and the execution of complex tasks such as software which enables learners to curate personalized collabo-
development[24]. This progress opens up a potential rative ecologies for dialectical engagement, affective
pathway for introducing multi-agent systems to cre- support, and metacognitive prompting. Crucially,
ate entirely new online teaching and learning experi- MAIC extends adaptive learning to cooperative tasks,
ences. in which students are assigned to finish the given
Proposal of MAIC. At the critical juncture of a tasks with peer AI agents. It integrates real-time adap-
new era defined by LLMs and multi-agent systems in tation, social learning, and contextual task generation,
online education, we introduce MAIC (Massive AI- aiming to guide students with suitable challenges.
Empowered Course). MAIC is dedicated to exploring In this paper, we introduce the concept of MAIC,
the integration of multi-agent systems across various and present an intuitive and user-friendly solution
stages of online learning, including course construc- that accommodates the needs of various users, includ-
tion, project-based learning, classroom instruction, ing students and educators. This platform comes pre-
and analysis, with the goal of balancing the scalabili- equipped with a suite of intelligent agents and tools
ty and adaptivity of online education. The core con- that support course analysis and the construction of
cept of MAIC is to construct a series of LLM-driven new MAIC course examples. Additionally, MAIC in-
agents to support the whole teaching and learning tegrates several learning analytics tools powered by
processes in the online educational environment. As large models, enabling quick access to learning data,
shown in Fig.1, the paradigm of MOOC and MAIC forecasting academic outcomes, and automating tasks
can be featured with two primary aspects as follows. such as interviews and assessments.
Teaching. This action is primarily performed by With the support of Tsinghua University, Beijing,
instructors. In MOOCs, instructors are responsible for one of China’s top universities, we conduct an explo-
thoroughly preparing course materials, drafting lec- ration of this new learning model over a period of
ture notes, and spending considerable time meticu- more than three months. Assisted by over 500 stu-
lously recording courses. The final output typically dent volunteers, we implement the study using two
consists of a series of pre-recorded instructional courses: the AI course “Towards Artificial General In-
videos. Within the proposed MAIC framework, in- telligence” (TAGI) and the learning science course
structors initiate the course development process by “How to Study in the University” (HSU). During this
uploading diverse raw instructional resources. Lever- pilot, we collect over 100 000 behavioral records.
aging a collaborative multi-agent architecture with Based on the data from these courses, along with stu-
human-in-the-loop oversight, the system facilitates dent survey measurements and qualitative interview
the interactive construction of didactic slide decks results, we conduct an initial analysis of the features

===== PAGE 5 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 397
and performance of the MAIC system. In subsequent port across diverse subjects, offering a more immer-
sections, we will introduce key components, technical sive experience than earlier QA systems. Building on
implementation, and real-world results③. chatbot capabilities, single-agent systems such as
EduChat[42] and LittleMu[16] integrate additional edu-
2 Related Work cational functionalities, such as feedback generation
and exercise recommendation, within a unified AI
The evolution of education has undergone several agent. The limitations of single-agent systems
transformative phases[5, 14, 26]. Below, we review the prompted research into collaborative multi-agent ar-
developments in chronological order. chitectures for more complex educational tasks.
Pre-ITS Era. Before the rise of intelligent tutor- Frameworks such as CODIA⑥ and the proposed MA-
ing systems (ITSs)[27], education was dominated by IC leverage LLM-driven agents, where these systems
traditional paradigms such as Aristocratic Educa- support rich, synchronous classroom-like experiences
tion[28] and Classroom Education[29], which were con- and scale personalized instruction through agent co-
strained by physical and temporal limitations. The operation. By distributing capabilities across special-
advent of the Internet led to scalable education ized modules, they achieve a new level of adaptivity
paradigms such as MOOC[30] and Live Class[31]. While and engagement.
these platforms significantly broadened access, they Towards Ideal ITS. The ultimate goal of ITSs is
lacked individualized support, highlighting the need to create an adaptive, empathetic, and cognitively
for more responsive educational technologies. Some supportive learning environment—an ideal ITS. While
rule-based intelligent tutoring systems were proposed current systems, including multi-agent platforms,
in 1990s[32], which opened a path to more scalable ed- have made significant strides, persistent gaps remain.
ucation systems[33]. Achieving this vision hinges on two axes: 1) scalabili-
Deep Learning Stage. Early AI integrations into ty-cost-efficient authoring, deployment, and delivery
education began with Question Answering (QA) sys- at massive scale; 2) adaptivity-fine-grained, real-time
tems, which aim to emulate pedagogical interactions. diagnosis and guidance tailored to each learner.
Systems such as Knowledge-Based Question Answer-
ing (KBQA)[34] and methods inspired by Socratic 3 MAIC
Questioning[35] allow for basic automated dialogue.
Landmark systems such as AutoTutor[36] and In this section, we introduce the major components
SCOT[37] support natural language interactions, yet for implementing the MAIC platform. Specifically, we
are limited by predefined scripts and knowledge present the main workflows designed for certain
boundaries. More recent systems such as MAssist- teaching process and the adaptive engine integrated
ant[38] improve contextual understanding but still op- with the designed multi-agent learning environment,
erate within narrow functional scopes. To address the shown in Fig.2.
need for personalized learning pathways, adaptive
testing systems emerged[39]. Techniques such as Deep 3.1 Teaching: MAIC Course Preparation
Knowledge Tracing (DKT)[40], and NeuralCD (Neu-
ral Cognitive Diagnosis)[41] use machine learning to MAIC-Craft: Anything to MAIC. MAIC-Craft is a
dynamically adjust question difficulty and content sub-system in MAIC that develops a standardized
based on learner performance. course preparation workflow (shown in Fig.3) to
LLM Age. With advances in LLMs, educational transform vast amounts of weakly structured and het-
chatbots gained prominence. Systems such as Khan- erogeneous learning resources into highly structured
migo④ and ChatGPT-Edu⑤ leverage LLMs to pro- and adaptive learning materials, unifying the inges-
vide more flexible and context-aware interactions. tion and structuring of diverse formats and modali-
These platforms enable continuous dialogue and sup- ties. Targeting at scalability, this workflow is de-
③For advanced open-source technologies and impressive cases of MAIC, please refer to the project site: https://project.maic.chat/,
Jan. 2026.
④https://blog.khanacademy.org/teacher-khanmigo/, Jan. 2026.
⑤https://openai.com/index/introducing-chatgpt-edu/, Jan. 2026.
⑥https://code.bdaa.pro/, Jan. 2026.

===== PAGE 6 =====
Teaching Adaptive Engine
Multi-Modal
Content Extraction Student Profile
MAIC Course
- Basic Information
Knowledge Base
Construction Interview - Academic Profile
MAIC Agents
- Interest Profile
ANY Educational
Read Plan
Material
MAIC-Craft
Cognitive Student Modeling
Learning
1. Query Generation
QQQn11
Lecture Student
Classroom Scripts Profile
Management
Teaching and Educational
DDmDmm
Initiation Sources
Emotional
Teacher 2. Open-Ended RAG
Companionship
In-Depth Assistant 3. Generation Pedagogical Theories
Discussion Bloom's Taxonomy
Classmate A C d o a n p te t n ed t LLM V U y D g L otsky's ZPD
Multi-Agent Classroom Learning Token-Level Personalization
Fig.2. Illustration of the conceptual structure of MAIC. RAG: retrieval-augmented generation.
Slides Content Extraction Course Component Generation
Textual P1 P2 P3 P4 ... Pn
Any Content
Input Visual P1 P2 P3 P4 ... Pn
Content
Knowledge Base Construction
Chapter 1: Multi-Agent Systems
P1PP11 P1P1P1
Section 1: Introduction
D1 P1 P1
Multi-Agent D2 P2 P2
Processing
D1 Dn Pn Pn
Description Generation Knowledge Base Generation
(a) (b)
signed to streamline the workload of experts while ac- and plan.
commodating diverse educational resource formats, fa-
cilitating the scalability of this online learning model 3.1.1 Read Stage
for broader implementation. The course preparation
workflow of MAIC-Craft consists of two stages: read At this stage, instructors (and authorized teach-
... ... ...
LectureScript
Supply Narrative Guidance for
Real-Time Teaching
Quiz
Question Generation and
Assessment
... ...
398 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
Canvas
Slides Videos Core Visual Presentation with
Layouts and Interactive Elements
Audios Docs
Agent Generation
Teacher Assistant Manager
Section 2: Recent Work
Teach & Answer Maintain Order Control the Class
DD11 Questions & Assist
Classmate(s) Analyzer Other Agents
Initiate Ideas & Analyze Learning ? Customized by
Discussions Performance Users!
Fig.3. Illustration of the course preparation workflow of MAIC-Craft. (a) Read stage. (b) Plan stage.

===== PAGE 7 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 399
ing assistants) are involved by providing any educa- the incorporation of flexible teaching functions such
tional material. With the assistance of multi-agent as interactive content presentation, adaptive question-
systems empowered by LLMs, they upload a set of ing, and multimodal content delivery into preset
educational resources R = fR g1(cid:20)i(cid:20)jRj, which can in- classrooms. This naturally integrates with related ed-
i
clude course slides, textbooks, videos, audio lectures, ucational technologies like lecture script generation
or any combination thereof. These resources are then and adaptive question generation. Meanwhile, leverag-
transformed into highly structured intelligent learn- ing intelligent agent construction techniques, the plat-
ing resources R~ = f(R ; D ; K)g1(cid:20)i(cid:20)jRj along with form utilizes the processed content to provide teach-
i i
multiple AI agents designed for classroom construc- ers with AI-driven pedagogical agents, facilitating
tion. The R and D here correspond to a single re- comprehensive course planning and foundational
i i
source unit and its comprehensive textual description, structure development.
respectively, while K denotes the knowledge-aware Course Component Generation. MAIC-Craft con-
section extracted from each resource. ceptualizes educational activities as structured course
Multimodal Content Extraction. MAIC-Craft em- components. Each course component C is defined as
ploys multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) to capture content C = (type;content;metadata), where type indicates the
across diverse modalities. For any given educational component category (e.g., Canvas, Quiz, LectureScri-
resource, the system extracts textual content Rt and pt), content details the educational material, and
i
visual content Rv, where Rt encompasses direct textu- metadata provides pedagogical context. This approach
i i
al content, transcribed content from audio sources, reflects principles of modularity and extensibility, al-
i.e., f1 : R ! (Rt; Rv). This functional model f1 lowing course components to be easily configurable
T i i i T
leverages multimodal architectures and can be contin- and reusable across different educational contexts.
uously improved through emerging LLM techniques. Each component is associated with the generation
The implementation integrates vision-language mod- of specific type of educational content, denoted as
els for visual processing, automatic speech recognition (C ; R^ ). Among these components, the most funda-
n C
for audio transcription, and document parsers for tex- mental component category is Canvas, as it consti-
tual extraction, all within a unified processing pipeline. tutes the core visual presentation framework of the
Knowledge Base Construction. After preprocess- instructional process. Category Canvas components
ing the uploaded resources, MAIC-Craft employs ex- integrate visual layouts, interactive elements, and
traction functions to complete the read stage. The structured content presentation, while category Quiz
multimodal content (Rt; Rv) is processed by an ML- components provide question generation and assess-
i i
LM-based method that generates comprehensive and ment logic, and category LectureScript components
pedagogically-aware descriptions, i.e., f2 : (Rt; Rv) ! supply narrative guidance. Based on this foundation,
T i i
D . Simultaneously, MAIC-Craft implements a knowl- MAIC-Craft provides a course content generation
i
edge extraction methodology that organizes the edu- pipeline based on long-context encoding methods and
cational content into a structured knowledge base, multimodal understanding, supporting both funda-
building taxonomic relationships across different re- mental teaching procedures and interactive compo-
source modalities, i.e., f3 : (Rt; Rv; D ) ! K, where nents, i.e., f4 : R~ ! R~ . The system provides
T i i i T components
K represents the structured knowledge base compo- component generation functions such as f5 : R~ !
T
nents that constitute the final structured resource set R~ for quiz creation. All generated components are
quiz
R~. The knowledge base maintains long-context coher- subject to instructor review and refinement, ensuring
ence across extensive educational content and teach- pedagogical quality and correctness.
ing smoothness. Agent Generation. Instructors can provide person-
alized pedagogical information (including teaching
3.1.2 Plan Stage styles, voice characteristics, and supplementary course
materials) to build customized teaching agents, such
At this stage, instructors (and authorized teach- as teacher agent a and teaching assistant agent a .
T TA
ing assistants) are involved through human-AI collab- MAIC-Craft provides agentization toolkits imple-
orative refinement processes. Based on the highly mented via LLMs, supporting high-level customiza-
structured resources, MAIC-Craft constructs an in- tion of these pedagogical agents. The uploaded sup-
structional action representation language, enabling plementary materials are segmented and integrated

===== PAGE 8 =====
400 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
into different intelligent agents using the RAG (re- personalization in factually accurate and contextually-
trieval-augmented generation) technology, enabling rich information, we design an open-ended retrieval
contextually-aware and personalized educational in- mechanism, which mitigates the risk of LLM halluci-
teractions. These technological innovations are thor- nations by providing relevant, up-to-date information
oughly evaluated in concurrent academic investiga- for the generation phase. First, we employ an LLM to
tions. analyze the student model and the educational topic
of the standardized content, and create precise search
3.2 MAIC Adaptive Engine queries. These queries are then executed, and the re-
sults undergo retrieval and filtering to prioritize high-
To address the limitations of standardized curricu- quality educational and scholarly sources. Subse-
la, MAIC introduces the adaptive engine, which dy- quently, the retrieved documents are segmented into
namically transforms uniform instructional text into semantic chunks, embedded as vectors, and stored in
learner-specific content conditioned on each student’s a temporary vector database. We identify the top-k
background and interests. Specifically, we employ a most relevant chunks based on their cosine similarity
two-stage pipeline: 1) cognitive student modeling, to the original content, to serve as supplementary
which constructs a detailed profile for each student, context for the next generation phase.
and 2) token-level personalization, which adapts Pedagogically-Guided Content Adaptation. In the
scripts at a granular level. final phase, we employ an RAG framework to rewrite
the educational script while maintaining instructional
3.2.1 Cognitive Student Modeling integrity. Initially, a rule-based filter assesses content
segments to determine their personalization suitabili-
Effective personalization begins with a comprehen- ty, preserving short, transitional, or elementary sen-
sive student model. Meanwhile, as LLM-based knowl- tences in their original form. For eligible segments, we
edge tracing techniques become more mature[43], we design a structured prompt to guide the content gen-
employ a conversational agent to engage the student eration, operationalizing established pedagogical theo-
in a natural dialogue to capture both academic and ries, as follows.
affective data. Academic features (e.g., major, year) 1) Bloom’s taxonomy: to ensure adaptations ap-
inform an initial estimate of the student’s knowledge, propriately scaffolded across a hierarchy of cognitive
while affective features (e.g., interests, hobbies) pro- levels, from basic knowledge to advanced synthesis.
vide context for enhancing the script’s relevance and 2) Vygotsky’s zone of proximal development
engagement. The unstructured conversational history (ZPD): to select and adapt content that is optimally
is then parsed by a summarization agent. This agent challenging and promotes learning.
extracts salient details and organizes them into a 3) Universal design for learning (UDL): to inform
structured profile containing machine-readable tags diverse adaptations, such as contextually relevant
(e.g., Domain: Sport. Category: Basketball), which analogies and illustrative examples.
serves as a robust and actionable model for personal- This prompt is explicitly constrained to preserve
ization. Listing A1⑦ shows an example of our con- core concepts, maintain logical structure, and make
structed student profile. only subtle changes. To ensure a natural and coher-
ent output, it removes any direct mentions of person-
3.2.2 Token-Level Personalization alization (e.g., “Based on your interest...”). This prin-
cipled approach ensures the final content is not only
Based on the established student model, we adapt personalized, but also pedagogically effective.
the standardized script to the student’s needs. Our
objective is to perform subtle, token-level adjust- 3.3 Learning: Multi-Agent Classroom
ments that enhance relevance and engagement with-
out altering the core pedagogical content. This pro- Building on Subsections 3.1 and 3.2, focusing on
cess unfolds in two primary phases: knowledge re- scalability and adaptivity, real deployments must bal-
trieval and content adaptation. ance and co-optimize in both directions. We then dive
Open-Ended Knowledge Retrieval. To ground the into the details of the environment (shown in Fig.4),
⑦https://jcst.ict.ac.cn/en/supplement/c2f85ed8-5f28-4a37-a5ea-ffdf4a3a9ac4, Jan. 2026.

===== PAGE 9 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 401
Current Slide Dialogue History
From Single-Agent to Multi-Agent
Now Let's talk about LLM empowered multi-agent
Multi-Agent System
systems. At the right side of the slide, we can see their
- What are Multi-Agent Systems?
- How to Understand These Systems? Teacher exciting applications in different fields. What's more, ...
Applications
- Social Simulation
- Software Development
- ... I can't wait for the incredible future with these systems!
P 36/58
I heard that some behaviors emerge in these agents!
Classmate
Who speaks Wow, that sounds really interesting! As our classmate
next? ... said, are there any patterns similar to human groups?
Manager User
Class Roles
Good question! ...
Assistant
Interact with the Class Here ...
Teacher Assistant Classmate(s) User
(a) (b)
Fig.4. Illustration of the classroom learning environment of MAIC. (a) Course management. (b) Interactions in MAIC.
a carefully designed multi-agent education environ- vided by students; 2) In-depth Discussion (ID) in-
ment that couples scale-efficient orchestration with volves the alignment, deliberation, and iterative ques-
learner-level personalization. tion-and-answer exchanges between the teacher and
students, which are instrumental in facilitating stu-
3.3.1 Environment Principles dents’ conceptual comprehension; 3) Emotional Com-
panionship (EC) pertains to the encouragement of
MAIC-CPL: Classroom Peer Learning. Student student learning, the cultivation of a conducive learn-
learning in MAIC follows a “1 Student user + N AI ing environment, and the provision of emotional sus-
Agents” model. In such an environment, the AI tenance; 4) Classroom Management (CM) refers to
teacher controls the learning progress based on the the maintenance of order, the organization of disrup-
highly structured instructional action representation tive elements, and the steering of classroom discourse.
language mentioned earlier, explains course content, Recognizing that these pedagogical behaviors
poses questions, and navigates PowerPoint slides, manifest through diverse class roles (represented as
while the AI teaching assistant maintains classroom Ab = fr g j Ab r j , with each r signifying a distinct role),
r i i
order and prevents content deviation. Students can it is imperative to ensure the variety and breadth of
interrupt the teacher at any time, ask questions, and the agents’ roles within the educational setting.
engage in discussions, and the intelligent agents con- Addressing the second concern, we emphasize the
tinuously adjust the teaching process and some con- necessity of meticulously and rhythmically orchestrat-
tent based on the students’ performance. The design ing the interactions among the various agents within
principles for constructing this immersive adaptive the system, in harmony with the course content. We
classroom originate from the following two con- introduce an innovative session controller designed to
cerns[44]. 1) How to ensure that the classroom covers regulate the flow of classroom interactions, contin-
the core classroom behaviors? 2) How to maintain the gent upon the class’s dynamic state and under the
entirety of the interaction within the natural flow aegis of a central managerial agent[22].
during the class? Based on these principles, we design multiple class-
In addressing the first concern, we systematically mate agents for diverse roles, implement class control,
classify classroom interaction behaviors in accordance and ultimately derive the multi-agent classroom process.
with established educational principles, as delineated
in Schwanke’s seminal work[45]. 1) Teaching and Initi- 3.3.2 Classmate Agents
ation (TI) encompasses the instructive actions of the
teacher and the responsive feedback or insights pro- To enhance the educational experience and emu-

===== PAGE 10 =====
402 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
∪
late the dynamics of traditional classroom settings, we tory up to time t represented as H = (uaj)t, where
t i
currently preset a variety of student-like agents, each u is the utterance made by agent a or a user (de-
i j
imbued with unique personality traits, to comple- noted as au). The class state S
t
i{ntegrates th}is inter-
ment the teaching agents. These agents are designed action data, structured as S = P ; H jAb . Here,
t t t r
to perform roles similar to those of peers, enriching
P (cid:18) P represents the learning materials covered up
the interactive landscape of the learning environment. t
to time t. This design prioritizes adaptability and re-
In this scholarly work, we introduce an initial set of
al-time decision making, aligning with pedagogical
four archetypal student agents, while also providing
principles that emphasize responsiveness to the evolv-
users with the flexibility to customize and introduce
ing needs of learners within an educational setting.
additional engaging student agents onto the educa-
tional platform. Each agent a 2 A is facilitated Manager Agent. MAIC contains a hidden meta-
i
agent responsible for regulating the dynamics of class-
through prompting LLMs and associated with one or
more class roles, denoted as: A = (cid:26)(LLM; prompt ); room interactions. This agent receives the current
A , Ab , where (cid:26) is the role customization operati A on, state of the class S t , monitors the flow of the class,
r
interprets ongoing activities, and determines the sub-
and P is the system prompt with agent descrip-
A
tion[44]. sequent action to be executed, ensuring that the
(cid:15) Class Clown (TI, EC, CM). To spark creativity, learning environment remains adaptive and respon-
sive. The task f of the Manager Agent can be for-
engender a lively classroom ambiance, and act as a L
supportive peer, this agent also assists the teacher in mally defined as f L : S t ! f(a t ;(cid:2))ja t 2 A;(cid:2) n ( (cid:2)g,
steering the class’s focus when the learner’s attention where (cid:2) n denotes a specific function and the selected
action will be carried out, transitioning the class to
wanders.
(cid:15) Deep Thinker (TI, ID). It is designed to facili- the next state. After executing an action, the system
enters a waiting phase for a time window (cid:28). During
tate profound contemplation and to pose thought-pro-
this period, if a user responds or waiting time elapses,
voking questions that challenge and extend the intel-
the Manager Agent is triggered to make a new deci-
lectual boundaries of the classroom.
(cid:15) Note Taker (TI, CM). With a penchant for sion. This design reflects key educational principles by
prioritizing a learner-centered approach, maintaining
summarizing and disseminating key points from class
fluid class engagement, and promoting timely and
discussions, it assists in cognitive organization and
contextually relevant instructional adjustments,
the retention of information for all participants.
(cid:15) Inquisitive Mind (TI, EC). Characterized by a thereby enhancing the overall educational experience.
This classroom management method is the core of
propensity for inquiring about lecture content, it fos-
MAIC's learning stage. Currently, we collect suffi-
ters a culture of inquiry and dialogue, prompting oth-
cient interaction data and employ several foundation
ers to engage in critical thinking and collaborative
models[47, 48] via fine-tuning or context engineering for
discourse.
implementation.
Unlike Standardized Operating Procedures (SOPs)
commonly used in multi-agent systems[24, 46], class-
room scenarios function as dynamic, interactive envi- 3.3.4 Cooperative Tasks with Peer Agents
ronments without rigid workflows, resembling an
evolving group discussion. In these settings, agents We also implement a toy environment in which a
must determine the appropriate timing for their inter- student collaborates with N AI peer agents to com-
actions, adapting to the fluid nature of classroom dis- plete a designed task by the course teacher. The task
course. To address this need, we design a controller is divided into milestones, issues, defined by a brief
that observes classroom dynamics, makes informed instruction, and collaborative agents involved. The
decisions, and manages agent behaviors based on the setup enforces accountable participation by assigning
current state of the class. The session controller is com- clear ownership to the student and limiting unsolicit-
posed of the class state receptor and the manager agent. ed assistance, reducing cognitive offloading. A coun-
selor agent monitors interactions and adaptively ad-
3.3.3 Classroom Management justs scaffolding to match the student’s performance,
providing guidance without removing challenge. To
Class State Receptor. The Class State Receptor cultivate real-world collaboration skills, agents reveal
captures the ongoing classroom dialogue, with the his- only partial reasoning and execution states, prompt-

===== PAGE 11 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 403
ing the student to coordinate, request information, tion slides, where the system must process multi-
and plan jointly rather than consume fully completed modal slide content (text, images, diagrams) and pro-
outputs. duce coherent instructional narratives suitable for
classroom delivery. We assess MAIC-Craft using 20
4 Key Technique Evaluation diverse university presentations spanning STEM and
humanities disciplines. The evaluation compares our
MAIC is a complex LLM-based intelligent agent integrated processing approach against established
system that encompasses various specific technologies. baselines: 1) iterative processing, which generates
In line with our design targets, we evaluate the tech- scripts slide-by-slide without cross-page context, and
niques along two axes: scalability and adaptivity. 2) direct prompting, which applies basic multimodal
Specifically, the teaching system involves multiple generation without pedagogical guidance.
processes for content generation and knowledge un-
derstanding, while on the learning side, it requires 4.1.2 Evaluation Metrics
evaluating the effectiveness of agent construction and
classroom management capabilities. We focus on pre- Following established evaluation frameworks in
senting two core functions: lecture script generation educational content generation[17, 49], we assess both
and course management, which are fundamental to automated and human-judged dimensions. For auto-
the teaching and learning aspects of MAIC. The eval- mated evaluation, we measure: 1) content under-
uation of other technologies will be continuously up- standing (content), which measures how well the gen-
dated. Notably, these assessments provide only an ini- erated scripts accurately reflect and synthesize infor-
tial view of specific aspects of MAIC and its effective- mation from the presentation slides; 2) long-context
ness in real-world practice will be further explored in coherence (coherence), which assesses whether scripts
Section 5. maintain narrative consistency and logical flow across
the entire presentation; and 3) pedagogical design
4.1 Learning Material Generation (pedagogy), which evaluates the quality of instruc-
Evaluation tional tone, clarity, and learner engagement in the
generated scripts. For human evaluation, drawing
To validate MAIC-Craft’s core generation capabil- from the Community of Inquiry framework[50], we as-
ities, we evaluate the multimodal content understand- sess: 1) consistency—the factual accuracy and align-
ing and pedagogical synthesis technologies that pow- ment with source slide content; 2) readability— the
er our Read-Generation pipeline. While MAIC-Craft linguistic fluency and ease of comprehension; and 3)
extends beyond script generation to encompass com- coherence—the logical organization and smooth tran-
plete course creation, these foundational technologies sitions between instructional segments.
are essential for all generation stages.
4.1.3 Results
4.1.1 Experimental Setup
As shown in Table 1, MAIC-Craft demonstrates
The evaluation task is to automatically generate superior performance across both automated metrics
pedagogically effective lecture scripts from presenta- (3.89 overall) and human evaluation rankings. The
Table 1. MAIC-Craft Core Technology Validation Results
Method Automated Evaluation Human Evaluation
Content Coherence Pedagogy Overall Consistency Readability Coherence
Iterative processing 3.68 3.72 3.75 3.72 1.47 1.48 1.31
Direct prompting 3.73 3.74 3.78 3.75 – – –
Teacher refined – – – – 2.12 2.16 2.25
MAIC-Craft 3.86 3.89 3.92 3.89 2.44 2.37 2.44
w/o visual 3.61 3.77 3.68 3.69 – – –
w/o context 3.84 3.66 3.84 3.78 – – –
Note: Automated scores (1–5 scale), human ranking (1–3 scale, the higher the better). “–” represents no evaluation conducted. Bold
scores represent the best performances.

===== PAGE 12 =====
404 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
human evaluation particularly validates MAIC-Craft’s ment distributions. The final dataset consists of 60
effectiveness, with consistently higher preference samples with 17 806 words and 2 573 retrieved sup-
scores compared with iterative processing and even porting documents.
teacher-refined versions. Key findings are as follows.
● Multimodal Understanding Advantage. MAIC- 4.2.2 Baselines
Craft’s comprehensive processing significantly outper-
forms single-modality approaches, validating our inte- We benchmark our system’s personalized instruc-
gration strategy that addresses the requirement for di- tional content against the original human-authored
verse input format handling. materials. To disentangle the contributions of individ-
● Long-Context Coherence. Strong coherence ual components, we further implement two ablation
scores in both automated (3.89) and human evalua- settings: 1) system-level ablation, where the back-
tion (2.44) demonstrate MAIC-Craft’s ability to bone model is evaluated with and without retrieval
maintain narrative consistency across extended educa- augmentation to assess the role of external grounding;
tional content, directly addressing the long-context 2) model-level ablation, where the backbone LLM is
understanding challenges identified in MAIC-Craft. replaced with alternative foundation models (GPT-4o,
● Pedagogical Intelligence. Superior pedagogy OpenAI-o1) under identical retrieval conditions, to
scores (3.92) and consistent human preference across examine the influence of model choice on personaliza-
all dimensions confirm that MAIC-Craft’s structured tion quality.
instructional design principles effectively enhance edu-
cational content quality beyond simple content gener- 4.2.3 Human Evaluation
ation, supporting our human-AI collaborative frame-
work approach. We conduct a blind expert evaluation on the con-
These results validate that the core technologies structed dataset. Five annotators with expertise in
powering MAIC-Craft’s generation stage possess the pedagogy and instructional design independently as-
fundamental capabilities required for high-quality ed- sess anonymized outputs along six pedagogical dimen-
ucational content creation across multiple modalities sions: instructional accuracy, expressive clarity, logi-
and formats. cal coherence, student engagement, linguistic natural-
ness, and personalization relevance. Each sample is
4.2 Personalization Evaluation double-coded by two reviewers, yielding high inter-
rater reliability (Kendall’s (cid:11) (cid:21) 0:8). We aggregate the
In this subsection, we conduct expert evaluations final scores in Table 2 to compare win-rates across
for the personalization effectiveness of our adaptive conditions.
engine.
4.2.4 Results
4.2.1 Data Construction
The results demonstrate a clear pedagogical ad-
To evaluate the personalization capability of the vantage of personalization. Compared with human-
adaptive engine, we construct a dataset covering five authored materials, our system achieves markedly
university-level courses across diverse disciplines: To- higher scores in learner-centered dimensions: personal-
wards Artificial General Intelligence (TAGI, comput- ization relevance (92:2 vs 33:8) and student engage-
er science), How to Study in University (HSU, educa- ment (87:0 vs 35:9). Notably, annotators also pre-
tion), Biology (BIO, natural science), Probability ferred the system’s linguistic naturalness (86:0 vs
Theory and Mathematical Statistics (PTMS, mathe- 33:8), commenting that while human materials are
matics), and Psychology (PSY, psychology). For each accurate, they are often perceived as “dry” and “im-
course, we extract self-contained instructional seg- personal”, whereas the personalized outputs integrate
ments from validated, human-authored curricula. To analogies and contexts resonant with individual learn-
simulate varied learner contexts, we generate synthet- ers.
ic yet realistic student profiles that reflect heteroge- Ablation settings further confirm these findings.
neous academic backgrounds and personal interests, Removing retrieval causes sharp declines in instruc-
validated against representative university enroll- tional accuracy (77:8 ! 53:7) and expressive clarity

===== PAGE 13 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 405
Table 2. Expert Evaluation Across Six Pedagogical Dimensions
Method Ablation Acc (%) Cla (%) Coh (%) Eng (%) Nat (%) Rel (%) Overall (%)
Human-authored – 55.5 56.5 57.9 35.9 33.8 33.8 45.5
Ours – 77.8 75.5 76.2 87.0 86.0 92.2 82.4
w/o retrieval System 53.7 53.0 53.4 67.3 69.0 65.7 60.3
GPT-4o Model 55.9 56.8 57.2 55.8 54.1 54.8 55.9
OpenAI-o1 Model 57.1 58.2 55.2 54.0 57.1 53.4 55.8
Note: Acc: accuracy, Cla: clarity, Coh: coherence, Eng: engagement, Nat: naturalness, Rel: relevance. We compare our system
against human-authored content and show two ablation settings: 1) system-level (w/o retrieval augmentation) and 2) model-level
(LLM backbones with retrieval augmentation). Bold scores represent the best performances and the underlined ones indicate the
second best performances.
(75:5 ! 53:0), underscoring its necessity for factual 4.3.1 Results
grounding and clarity. Backbone substitution reveals
that model choice strongly influences affective dimen- Statistical analysis reveals that omitting role de-
sions: while alternative retrieval-augmented baselines scriptions for each agent reduces the classifier’s per-
perform reasonably, our chosen backbone consistent- formance. Although the LLM can sometimes identify
ly leads in engagement, naturalness, and relevance. the correct agent by referencing partial behaviors
Overall, our system attains the highest score from the chat history, the inclusion of comprehensive
role descriptions markedly enhances performance.
(82:4), validating the effectiveness of retrieval-aug-
This suggests that while leveraging chat history as in-
mented personalization over both standardized hu-
put for the scene controller can provide some benefits,
man materials and alternative system variants.
it is insufficient for consistently generating accurate
outputs.
4.3 Learning Side Evaluation
The current results, however, remain below opti-
mal levels, indicating further opportunities to en-
Classroom Manager Agent. Subsection 3.1.2 also
hance the user experience. Despite the suboptimal
mentions several relevant techniques of MAIC learn-
performance, interacting agents demonstrate the ca-
ing. The classroom manager agent is the keypoint of
pacity to partially offset these shortcomings. This
the classroom controlling. However, the evaluation of
compensatory effect is due to the LLM’s ability to
this process is highly subjective, making it challeng-
manage user queries beyond the predefined functions,
ing to establish an objective scoring system for assess-
as evidenced by our subsequent behavioral study,
ment. Therefore, in the practical implementation of
where user ratings do not significantly decline in the
the TAGI and HSU courses, we select 500 actual sys-
ablation setting.
tem decisions and extract their corresponding class-
However, enhancing the accuracy of the con-
room scenarios. We recruit expert teachers and teach-
troller agent remains advantageous as agents can
ing assistants to manually annotate these scenarios.
more effectively manage the tasks they are designed
Based on this annotated data, we derive the results
for. For example, the teacher agent is tailored to
shown in Fig.5. These results illustrate the alignment
adopt a softer, more instructive tone, but it may be
between the actions chosen by the manager agent and
less effective in handling safety-related cases com-
those selected by human instructors in determining
pared with the assistant agent. Improved accuracy en-
the next course action. Specifically, we evaluate the
sures that each agent operates within its designed
implementation with and without role description, de-
scope, contributing to a more seamless and effective
tecting the effects of contextual information.
instructional process.
TAGI
5 Empirical Evaluation
Manager Agent
HSU
w/o Description
To explore how students utilize the MAIC plat-
Overall form for learning and to evaluate the learning effec-
40 50 60 70 80 90 tiveness within an authentic educational setting, a
Precision large-scale user study is conducted. Following ethical
Fig.5. Manager agent precision. approval from the Tsinghua University Science and

===== PAGE 14 =====
406 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
Technology Ethics Committee (Certificate No: THU- ized inquiry.
04-2024-56), we implement a two-month experimen- To comprehensively unfold students’ interaction
tal intervention within the course Towards General with multiple AI agents, we systematically catego-
Artificial Intelligence (TGAI). While over 500 stu- rized and consolidated student activities into seven
dents initially registered, a total of 319 students ulti- distinct activity types, which are visually represented
mately completed the course within the study period. in Fig.6. These categories include asking questions,
This investigation aims to address three core re- initiating ideas, responding to AI’s questions, negoti-
search objectives: 1) to characterize student engage- ating and verifying, regulating AI roles, regulating
ment patterns during course learning and human-AI class process, and sharing emotion. Notably, the be-
interactions, and 2) to determine the learning out- haviors of asking questions and initiating ideas were
comes achieved by students following the MAIC in- the most prevalent, accounting for 79% of all record-
tervention, and 3) to evaluate the quality of the AI- ed activities. Furthermore, it is important to note
generated instruction and interaction on the MAIC that some students managed and controlled different
platform. Preliminary observations derived from this intelligent agent roles and the class progress. These
study are detailed in the subsequent subsections. Due management-related behaviors account for 11%
to the page limitation, we report detailed results of (Fig.6), for example, “Please go back to the previous
the quality of the AI-generated instruction and inter- slide” or “Please explain that in simpler terms”,
action on the MAIC platform in the Appendix⑧. demonstrating strong autonomy and self-regulated
learning abilities. In the interviews, some students al-
5.1 Student Engagement in MAIC so mentioned, “I don’t just ask for knowledge; I might
ask, I want to learn more, or I hope to explore some-
Analyzing the log data enabled us to further in- thing new in a certain field, to manage and regulate
vestigate students’ engagement in the MAIC course the AI’s responses.”
and their interaction dynamics with the multiple AI
agents. The results revealed a clear divergence in stu-
1.5% 18.1%
dent approach: among all the students who successful- Student Activity Type
0.7% Regulating Process
ly completed the entire course (N = 319), 13.7% pri-
Regulating Classmates
marily adopted an “observational mode”, while the 9.6% Initiating Ideas
vast majority (86.3%) actively engaged in interac- Negotiating and Verifying
5.3%
Asking Questions
tions with the various AI agents. 3.9% Sharing Emotions
60.9%
Subsequent qualitative data gathered through stu- Responding
dent interviews offered insight into these distinct ap-
proaches. Students who adopted the observational
Fig.6. Ratios of student activities.
mode indicated that they were able to smoothly fol-
low the AI instructor’s explanations without cogni- Overall, the high level of proactive questioning in-
tive interruption. They specifically reported that this dicates that students are eager to engage when given
approach facilitated “uninterrupted thinking” and re- the opportunity, underscoring the importance of de-
sulted in “a more cohesive learning experience”. For signing AI tools that foster inquiry-based learning[51].
students who actively chose the interactive mode, the Questioning is an important behavior that reflects ac-
average number of messages sent per student per tive learning in students, which ultimately leads to
module was 5:24 (SD = 6:62), with an average mes- better academic performance. Finally, the occurrence
sage length of 21:28 Chinese characters (SD = 16:94). of management-related behaviors suggests that stu-
Qualitatively, these interactive students described dents already realize their active role in their learn-
their experience as gaining “a supportive environ- ing process, which align with previous study[52].
ment for self-expression”, where they felt “zero pres-
sure to ask questions and receive immediate feedback 5.2 Learning Outcomes in MAIC
from different perspectives”, highlighting the per-
ceived benefits of the interactive setting for personal- Students’ learning outcomes on the MAIC cours-
⑧https://jcst.ict.ac.cn/en/supplement/c2f85ed8-5f28-4a37-a5ea-ffdf4a3a9ac4, Jan. 2026.

===== PAGE 15 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 407
es were evaluated from three perspectives: learning tions (t = 3:22, p = 0:002). These findings indicate
performance (the baseline test, performance in mod- that the immersive learning experience on the MAIC
ule tests and final course test), technology accep- platform successfully facilitates the development of a
tance through questionnaires, and self-reported high- positive and constructive attitude towards the use of
er-order thinking scores. generative AI tools. Interview responses also reflect an
Test Results. The baseline test was conducted one enhanced understanding and acceptance of AI tech-
day prior to the course, consisting of 10 multiple- nologies. One student remarked: “I used to be quite
choice questions. Module tests were conducted at the resistant to AI, mainly because it was too complicat-
end of each module, focusing primarily on the con- ed, but after this course, I found that it was not that
tent covered in the module. Each module test consist- complicated. I learned some of its principles.”
ed of 10 multiple-choice questions. All the test items High-Order Thinking. We explore the perceived
were created by the course teacher and teaching assis- impact of taking the TAGI course on the MAIC plat-
tants. The correlation analysis showed that test scores form on students’ higher-order thinking skills by com-
are strongly associated with class engagement. Specifi- paring student responses from pre- and post-course
cally, the frequency (measured by the logarithm of questionnaires. The results of paired-sample t-tests
the number of messages per module MsgNum) and showed significant increases in students’ perceptions
length of in-class chat messages (measured by the log-
of the course’s positive effects on both abstract think-
arithm of the number of characters per message and
ing (t = 2:32, p = 0:02) and critical thinking
module MsgLen) sent by students, prominent fea-
(t = 2:37, p = 0:02). These findings suggest that stu-
tures of the MAIC system, were positively correlated
dents perceived the learning experience on the MAIC
with standardized module test scores, as presented in
platform as an enhancement to their higher-order
Table 3.
thinking capabilities.
Table 3. Correlation of Students’ Message-Aware Behaviors
Interviews further illuminated these perceptions.
and Test Results One student stated: “I think it might make me more
(cid:22)(log(MsgNum)) (cid:22)(log(MsgLen)) confident in asking these questions and think more. I
AvgQuiz 0.341*** 0.202* also approach problems from multiple perspectives,
FinalExam 0.346*** 0.333** although I won’t completely accept what the AI says;
Note: Values shown in the table are normalized. I always think about it more.”
Few students articulated a noticeable deficiency in
A regression analysis on students’ average module
opportunities for deep, substantive discussion within
test scores was performed, controlling normalized
the course structure. For instance, one student com-
scores of the baseline test as the covariate. As Table 4
mented on the limitations compared with a tradition-
shows, the average message length (AvgMsgLen) is
al setting: “(In a real classroom) After class, I can ask
found to be a significant predictor of the final exam
the teacher to explain it to me again. Teachers will
performance ( (cid:12) =0:14, p = 0:021).
directly tell me whether my question is correct, valu-
Table 4. Regression Results of Final Exam on the Length of able, or not, based on their understanding. The teach-
Messages er’s questions can challenge my ingrained cognition
(cid:12) SE 95% CI t p and help me break my own limitations, but the AI
(Constant) 25.46 [19.13 31.79] 8.02 <0.001 teacher and AI classmates in this course do not seem
AvgMsgLen 0.14 0.25 [0.02 0.26] 2.36 0.021 capable of doing that”.
Baseline 2.02 0.43 [1.46 3.36] 4.05 <0.001
This student further criticized the focus of the
Note: SE: standard error. CI: confidence interval.
content: “This course is purely about knowledge or
Technology Acceptance. We also evaluate stu- concepts because the teacher’s teaching is quite me-
dents’ attitude changes towards generative AI tools chanical. The course is rich in theoretical knowledge,
before and after the course. The results demonstrated but there is almost no ‘life thinking’, ‘life enlighten-
a significant increase in technology acceptance ment’, or any philosophical reflections outside of arti-
(N = 111, t = 3:05, p = 0:002). Further analysis of ficial intelligence.”
specific dimensions of acceptance revealed significant Both quantitative and qualitative observations
improvements in habit (t = 2:81, p = 0:005), effort ex- collectively suggest that while students broadly ac-
pectancy (t = 3:98, p < 0:001), and facilitating condi- knowledge the MAIC platform’s potential to foster

===== PAGE 16 =====
408 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
abstract and critical thinking, it may not have fully tives steadily increase, where we aim to analyze the
facilitated the deep, challenging, and personally rele- learning style and outcomes of students in solving
vant intellectual engagement needed to promote all complex problem or projects.
aspects of higher-order thought. Therefore, future Finally, a long-term vision involves aligning AI
work will focus on integrating more advanced cogni- more closely with biological and human intelligence.
tive strategies into the agents’ design and introduc- It includes exploring brain-inspired architectures that
ing more complex problem-solving scenarios and chal- mirror human memory, attention, and reasoning pro-
lenging content to better support the development of cesses, and leveraging such insights to design multi-
higher-order thinking. agent systems with fine-grained cognitive fidelity.
Building human-like agents at a behavioral level, we
6 Future Work aspire to create AI-augmented classrooms that do not
just simulate teaching, but also authentically emulate
Building upon the foundational framework of MA- the nuanced, empathetic, and adaptive nature of hu-
IC, several critical directions warrant further investi- man instruction.
gation to advance the integration of AI and educa-
tional theory. 7 Predicted Impact
First, future work should consider developing
LLMs that are not only technically proficient but al- The implementation of MAIC in online education
so deeply grounded in established pedagogical princi- is expected to revolutionize the learning experience by
ples and cognitive science. This entails constructing a enhancing both scalability and adaptability. By lever-
domain-specific foundational model for education-one aging multi-agent systems, MAIC can dynamically
that internalizes curricular structures, learning pro- adjust to the needs of individual learners, providing
gressions, knowledge states and cognitive load theo- personalized learning paths that were previously
ry— thereby enabling the generation of learning re- unattainable in traditional MOOCs. This personal-
sources that are both instructionally sound and cogni- ized approach not only improves learning outcomes
tively optimized. Specifically, course plans generated but also provides access to high-quality education
by MAIC-Craft could be more well-aligned with peda- across diverse socio-economic backgrounds, as it re-
gogical principles, with less hallucinations and more duces the dependency on human instructors for con-
Socratic educational practice designs. It would serve tent delivery.
as a unified and an education-centric knowledge base, Moreover, MAIC is anticipated to address some of
ensuring fidelity to learning objectives while support- the inherent challenges of traditional online educa-
ing adaptive content delivery. tion, such as the one-size-fits-all model and the lack of
Second, there are also sufficient needs about en- real-time adaptability[53]. The integration of AI-driv-
riching collaborative learning environments through en agents as teachers, teaching assistants, and class-
more sophisticated multi-agent simulations. Specifical- mates creates a more interactive and responsive learn-
ly, we will extend MAIC to support dynamic team in- ing environment. This shift promises to increase en-
teractions with different roles in project-based learn- gagement and motivation among students, potential-
ing, where AI agents not only build task execution, ly leading to higher completion rates and deeper un-
but also model metacognitive strategies, social regula- derstanding of the material.
tion, and epistemic discourse. It requires advancing However, it is crucial to acknowledge that the in-
human-centered agent design, where agents act not troduction of such a transformative system could also
merely as tools, but also as responsive, socially aware have unintended consequences. There may be a
collaborators that adapt to the evolving needs, group widening gap between students who adapt well to AI-
dynamics, and affective states of learners. powered learning environments and those who strug-
Third, from a pedagogical perspective, we plan to gle with this new mode of education. Additionally,
continually investigate the co-learning trajectories and the reliance on AI systems could lead to reduced op-
outcomes in a multi-agent classroom as well as the portunities for human instructors, potentially dimin-
abovementioned MAIC-PBL. Meanwhile, with the ex- ishing the role of educators in the learning process.
panding breadth of courses and topics, learning objec- These impacts need to be carefully monitored and ad-

===== PAGE 17 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 409
dressed through ongoing evaluation and refinement of [4] Daniel J. Making sense of MOOCs: Musings in a maze of
the MAIC system. myth, paradox and possibility. Journal of Interactive Me-
dia in Education, 2012, 2012(3): Article No. 18. DOI: 10.
5334/2012-18.
8 Conclusions
[5] Pappano L. The year of the MOOC. The New York
Times, 2012, 2(12): 2012.
In this paper, we provided a concise overview of
[6] Papadakis S. MOOCs 2012-2022: An overview. Advances
the development trajectory of online education and
in Mobile Learning Educational Research, 2023, 3(1):
technological opportunities that arise in the era of 682–693. DOI: 10.25082/AMLER.2023.01.017.
large language models (LLMs). Considering the prin- [7] Reich J, Ruipérez-Valiente J A. The MOOC pivot. Sci-
ciples of adaptivity and scalability, along with the so- ence, 2019, 363(6423): 130–131. DOI: 10.1126/science.
phisticated design of LLM-driven multi-agent sys- aav7958.
[8] Reich J. Rebooting MOOC research. Science, 2015,
tems, we explored how existing MOOC can be trans-
347(6217): 34–35. DOI: 10.1126/science.1261627.
formed into MAIC (Massive AI-Empowered Courses)
[9] Zhu M, Sari A R, Lee M M. A comprehensive systematic
and discussed new paradigms of teaching and learn-
review of MOOC research: Research techniques, topics,
ing. We proposed a comprehensive solution, analyzed
and trends from 2009 to 2019. Educational Technology
key technical components, and implemented each step Research and Development, 2020, 68(4): 1685–1710. DOI:
of the process. Our approaches are practically de- 10.1007/s11423-020-09798-x.
ployed in several courses at Tsinghua University, Bei- [10] Nabizadeh A H, Leal J P, Rafsanjani H N, Shah R R.
jing, leading to a series of preliminary observations of Learning path personalization and recommendation meth-
student behavior. These initial findings suggest that ods: A survey of the state-of-the-art. Expert Systems with
Applications, 2020, 159: 113596. DOI: 10.1016/j.eswa.
highly personalized classrooms built with new AI-as-
2020.113596.
sisted learning technologies can achieve high quality,
[11] Zhong Q, Yu J, Zhang Z, Mao Y, Wang Y, Lin Y, Hou L,
and student behaviors demonstrate the effectiveness
Li J, Tang J. Towards a general pre-training framework
of the teaching process.
for adaptive learning in MOOCs. arXiv: 2208.04708, 2022.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.04708, Feb. 2026.
Acknowledgements We give the greatest ap-
[12] Jiang W, Pardos Z A, Wei Q. Goal-based course recom-
preciation to Yisi Zhan for practicing her course
mendation. In Proc. the 9th International Conference on
“How to Study in the University” on MAIC. We sin-
Learning Analytics & Knowledge, Mar. 2019, pp.36–45.
cerely thank Jie Cao, Ruimiao Li, Letian Ma, Jiaxin DOI: 10.1145/3303772.3303814.
Fan, Yang Dang, Yongqi Li, and Zhaochun Wen for [13] Zhang H, Huang T, Lv Z, Liu S, Zhou Z. MCRS: A
their full and commited support for educational data course recommendation system for MOOCs. Multimedia
collections and analysis. We thank Yuanchun Wang, Tools and Applications, 2018, 77(6): 7051–7069. DOI: 10.
1007/s11042-017-4620-2.
Hanming Li for toolkit development. We thank Nan
[14] Jing X, Tang J. Guess you like: Course recommendation
Zhang, Ruixin Ni, Zehang Li, Yuqiu Liu, Yanpeng
in MOOCs. In Proc. the International Conference on Web
Wang, and Danqi Zheng for their outstanding project
Intelligence, Aug. 2017, pp.783–789. DOI: 10.1145/
management, coordination, engineering implementa-
3106426.3106478.
tion, and product design. [15] Yilmaz R, Yurdugül H, Yilmaz F G K, Şahin M, Sulak S,
Aydin F, Tepgeç M, Müftüoğlu C T, Oral Ö. Smart MOOC
Conflict of Interest The authors declare that
integrated with intelligent tutoring: A system architec-
they have no conflict of interest.
ture and framework model proposal. Computers and Edu-
cation: Artificial Intelligence, 2022, 3: 100092. DOI: 10.
References 1016/j.caeai.2022.100092.
[16] Tu S, Zhang Z, Yu J, Li C, Zhang S, Yao Z, Hou L, Li J.
[1] Ng A. The online revolution: Education for everyone. In LittleMu: Deploying an online virtual teaching assistant
Proc. the 22nd ACM International Conference on Infor- via heterogeneous sources integration and chain of teach
mation & Knowledge Management, Oct. 27–Nov. 1, 2013, prompts. In Proc. the 32nd ACM International Confer-
pp.1913–1914. DOI: 10.1145/2505515.2514698. ence on Information and Knowledge Management, Oct.
[2] Fröbel F. The Education of Man. D. Appleton and Com- 2023, pp.4843–4849. DOI: 10.1145/3583780.3615484.
pany, 1887. [17] Kabudi T, Pappas I, Olsen D H. AI-enabled adaptive
[3] Halstead M, Taylor M J. Values in Education and Educa- learning systems: A systematic mapping of the literature.
tion in Values. Routledge, 2005. DOI: 10.4324/ Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 2021, 2:
9780203973554. 100017. DOI: 10.1016/j.caeai.2021.100017.

===== PAGE 18 =====
410 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
[18] Epstein Z, Hertzmann A, The Investigators of Human Proc. the 9th International Conference on Electronics In-
Creativity. Art and the science of generative AI. Science, formation and Emergency Communication (ICEIEC), Jul.
2023, 380(6650): 1110–1111. DOI: 10.1126/science. 2019. DOI: 10.1109/ICEIEC.2019.8784572.
adh4451. [31] Brockfeld T, Müller B, de Laffolie J. Video versus live lec-
[19] OpenAI. GPT-4 technical report. arXiv: 2303.08774, 2023. ture courses: A comparative evaluation of lecture types
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774, Feb. 2026. and results. Medical Education Online, 2018, 23(1):
[20] Touvron H, Lavril T, Izacard G, Martinet X, Lachaux M 1555434. DOI: 10.1080/10872981.2018.1555434.
A, Lacroix T, Rozière B, Goyal N, Hambro E, Azhar F, [32] Mislevy R J, Gitomer D H. The role of probability-based
Rodriguez A, Joulin A, Grave E, Lample G. LLaMA: inference in an intelligent tutoring system. User Modeling
Open and efficient foundation language models. arXiv: and User-Adapted Interaction, 1995, 5(3/4): 253–282.
2302.13971, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.13971, Feb. DOI: 10.1007/BF01126112.
2026. [33] Aleven V. Rule-based cognitive modeling for intelligent
[21] Chen W, Su Y, Zuo J, Yang C, Yuan C, Qian C, Chan C tutoring systems. In Advances in Intelligent Tutoring Sys-
M, Qin Y, Lu Y, Xie R, Liu Z, Sun M, Zhou J. Agent- tems, Nkambou R, Bourdeau J, Mizoguchi R (eds.),
Verse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and explor- Springer-Verlag, 2010, pp.33–62. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-
ing emergent behaviors in agents. arXiv: 2308.10848v1, 14363-2_3.
2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.10848v1, Feb. 2026. [34] Cui W, Xiao Y, Wang H, Song Y, Hwang S W, Wang W.
[22] Wu Q, Bansal G, Zhang J, Wu Y, Zhang S, Zhu E, Li B, KBQA: Learning question answering over QA corpora
Jiang L, Zhang X, Wang C. AutoGen: Enabling next-gen and knowledge bases. Proceedings of the VLDB Endow-
LLM applications via multi-agent conversation frame- ment, 2017, 10(5): 565–576. DOI: 10.14778/3055540.
work. arXiv: 2308.08155v1, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/ 3055549.
2308.08155v1, Feb. 2026. [35] Carey T A, Mullan R J. What is Socratic questioning?
[23] Park J S, O’Brien J, Cai C J, Morris M R, Liang P, Bern- Psychotherapy: Theory, Research, Practice, Training,
stein M S. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of hu- 2004, 41(3): 217–226. DOI: 10.1037/0033-3204.41.3.217.
man behavior. In Proc. the 36th Annual ACM Sympo- [36] Nye B D, Graesser A C, Hu X. AutoTutor and family: A
sium on User Interface Software and Technology, Oct. review of 17 years of natural language tutoring. Interna-
29–Nov. 1, 2023, Article No. 2. DOI: 10.1145/3586183. tional Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 2014,
3606763. 24(4): 427–469. DOI: 10.1007/s40593-014-0029-5.
[24] Qian C, Cong X, Liu, Yang C, Chen W, Su Y, Dang Y, [37] Schultz K, Bratt E O, Clark B, Peters S, Pon-Barry H,
Li J, Xu J, Li D, Liu Z, Sun M. Communicative agents Treeratpituk P. A scalable, reusable spoken conversation-
for software development. arXiv: 2307.07924v4, 2023. al tutor: SCoT. In Proc. the AIED 2003 Workshop on Tu-
https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07924v4, Feb. 2026. torial Dialogue Systems: With a View Toward the Class-
[25] Yu J, Wang Y, Zhong Q, Luo G, Mao Y, Sun K, Feng room, Jul. 2003, pp.367–377.
W, Xu W, Cao S, Zeng K, Yao Z, Hou L, Lin Y, Li P, [38] Jiang L, Hu S, Huang M, Wang Z, Yang J, Ye X, Zheng
Zhou J, Xu B, Li J, Tang J, Sun M. MOOCCubeX: A W. MAssistant: A personal knowledge assistant for
large knowledge-centered repository for adaptive learning MOOC learners. In Proc. the 2019 Conference on Empiri-
in MOOCs. In Proc. the 30th ACM International Confer- cal Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th
ence on Information & Knowledge Management, Nov. International Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro-
2021, pp.4643–4652. DOI: 10.1145/3459637.3482010. cessing (EMNLP-IJCNLP): System Demonstrations, Nov.
[26] Pal Chowdhury S, Zouhar V, Sachan M. AutoTutor 2019, pp.133–138. DOI: 10.18653/v1/D19-3023.
meets large language models: A language model tutor [39] Meijer R R, Nering M L. Computerized adaptive testing:
with rich pedagogy and guardrails. In Proc. the 11th Overview and introduction. Applied Psychological Mea-
ACM Conference on Learning @ Scale, Jul. 2024, pp.5–15. surement, 1999, 23(3): 187–194. DOI: 10.1177/
DOI: 10.1145/3657604.3662041. 01466219922031310.
[27] Nwana H S. Intelligent tutoring systems: An overview. [40] Piech C, Bassen J, Huang J, Ganguli S, Sahami M,
Artificial Intelligence Review, 1990, 4(4): 251–277. DOI: Guibas L, Sohl-Dickstein J. Deep knowledge tracing. In
10.1007/BF00168958. Proc. the 29th International Conference on Neural Infor-
[28] Hexter J H. The education of the aristocracy in the re- mation Processing Systems, Dec. 2015, pp.505–513. DOI:
naissance. The Journal of Modern History, 1950, 22(1): 10.5555/2969239.2969296.
1–20. DOI: 10.1086/237314. [41] Wang F, Liu Q, Chen E, Huang Z, Chen Y, Yin Y,
[29] Giroux H A, Penna A N. Social education in the class- Huang Z, Wang S. Neural cognitive diagnosis for intelli-
room: The dynamics of the hidden curriculum. Theory & gent education systems. In Proc. the AAAI Conference on
Research in Social Education, 1979, 7(1): 21–42. DOI: 10. Artificial Intelligence, Feb. 2020, pp.6153–6161. DOI: 10.
1080/00933104.1979.10506048. 1609/aaai.v34i04.6080.
[30] Dang F, Tang J, Li S. MOOC-KG: A MOOC knowledge [42] Dan Y, Lei Z, Gu Y, Li Y, Yin J, Lin J, Ye L, Tie Z,
graph for cross-platform online learning resources. In Zhou Y, Wang Y, Zhou A, Zhou Z, Chen Q, Zhou J, He

===== PAGE 19 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 411
L, Qiu X. EduChat: A large-scale language model-based Ji-Fan Yu received his B.E. degree
chatbot system for intelligent education. arXiv: in software engineering from Beihang
2308.02773, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.02773, Feb.
University, Beijing, in 2018, and his
2026.
Ph.D. degree in computer science and
[43] Li H, Yu J, Ouyang Y, Liu Z, Rong W, Liu H, Li J,
technology from Tsinghua University,
Xiong Z. Explainable few-shot knowledge tracing. Fron-
tiers of Digital Education, 2025, 2(4): Article No. 34. Beijing, in 2024. He currently works at
DOI: 10.1007/s44366-025-0071-x. Tsinghua University’s School of Edu-
[44] Zhang Z, Zhang-Li D, Yu J, Gong L, Zhou J, Hao Z, cation, where his research is on artificial intelligence in
Jiang J, Cao J, Liu H, Liu Z, Hou L, Li J. Simulating
education.
classroom education with LLM-empowered agents. In
Proc. the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Apr. 2025, pp.10364–
10379. DOI: 10.18653/v1/2025.naacl-long.520. Daniel Zhang-Li received his B.E.
[45] Schwanke D. Classroom interaction research: A survey of and M.S. degrees in computer science
recent literature. The Journal of Classroom Interaction,
and technology from Tsinghua Univer-
1981, 16(2): 8–10.
sity, Beijing, in 2021 and 2023, respec-
[46] Hong S, Zheng X, Chen J, Cheng Y, Wang J, Zhang C,
tively. He is currently a Ph.D. candi-
Wang Z, Yau S K S, Lin Z, Zhou L, Ran C, Xiao L, Wu
C. MetaGPT: Meta programming for multi-agent collabo- date in computer science and technolo-
rative framework. arXiv: 2308.00352v4, 2023. https://arx- gy at Tsinghua University. His re-
iv.org/abs/2308.00352v4. Feb. 2026. search interest lies in large language models and applica-
[47] Hu S, Tu Y, Han X, He C, Cui G, Long X, Zheng Z,
tion agents.
Fang Y, Huang Y, Zhao W, Zhang X, Thai Z, Zhang K,
Wang C, Yao Y, Zhao C, Zhou J, Cai J, Zhai Z, Ding N,
Jia C, Zeng G, Li D, Liu Z, Sun M. MiniCPM: Unveiling
the potential of small language models with scalable train-
ing strategies. arXiv: 2404.06395, 2024. https://arxiv.org/ Zhe-Yuan Zhang received his LLB
abs/2404.06395, Feb. 2026. degree in philosophy, politics, and
[48] Team GLM. ChatGLM: A family of large language mod-
economy, and his M.S. degree in com-
els from GLM-130B to GLM-4 all tools. arXiv: 2406.12793,
puter science and technology from Ts-
2024. https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12793, Feb. 2026.
inghua University, Beiing, in 2022 and
[49] Kurdi G, Leo J, Parsia B, Sattler U, Al-Emari S. A sys-
tematic review of automatic question generation for edu- 2025, respectively. He is currently a
cational purposes. International Journal of Artificial Intel- Ph.D. student at Carnegie Mellon Uni-
ligence in Education, 2020, 30(1): 121–204. DOI: 10.1007/ versity, Pittsburgh. His research focuses on human-agent
s40593-019-00186-y.
interaction.
[50] Garrison D R, Arbaugh J B. Researching the community
of inquiry framework: Review, issues, and future direc-
tions. The Internet and Higher Education, 2007, 10(3):
157–172. DOI: 10.1016/j.iheduc.2007.04.001.
[51] Xie X. Influence of AI-driven inquiry teaching on learn-
ing outcomes. International Journal of Emerging Tech-
nologies in Learning (iJET), 2023, 18(23): 59–70. DOI: 10.
Yu-Cheng Wang received his B.E.
3991/ijet.v18i23.45473.
degree in computer science from Zhe-
[52] Cain W. Prompting change: Exploring prompt engineer-
ing in large language model AI and its potential to trans- jiang University, Hangzhou, in 2020.
form education. TechTrends, 2024, 68(1): 47–57. DOI: 10. He is currently a master student in
1007/s11528-023-00896-0. the Knowledge Engineering Group at
[53] Rizvi S, Rienties B, Rogaten J, Kizilcec R F. Beyond one-
Tsinghua University’s Department of
size-fits-all in MOOCs: Variation in learning design and
Computer Science and Technology,
persistence of learners in different cultural and socioeco-
nomic contexts. Computers in Human Behavior, 2022, Beijing. His research focuses on artificial intelligence in
126: 106973. DOI: 10.1016/j.chb.2021.106973. education.

===== PAGE 20 =====
412 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
Hao-Xuan Li received his B.E. and Lu Zhang received her B.S. degree
M.S. degrees at the School of Comput- in geophysics from Tongji University,
er Science and Technology from Bei- Shanghai, in 2021. She is currently a
hang University, Beijing, in 2022 and master student at the School of Edu-
2025, respectively. He is currently a cation, Tsinghua University, Beijing.
first-year Ph.D. candidate at the Col- Her research interests focus on the
lege of AI, Tsinghua University, Bei- practical applications of generative ar-
jing. His research focuses on cognitive science and AI for tificial intelligence in teaching and learning, with a par-
education. ticular emphasis on AI-enabled innovative pedagogical
models and their implications for AI in education.
Joy Jia Yin Lim received her B.E.
degree in computer science and tech-
nology from Tsinghua University, Bei- Xu-Sheng Dai received his B.S. de-
jing, in 2023. She is currently a mas- gree in economics from the University
ter student at the Department of of New South Whale, Sydney, in 2023.
Computer Science and Technology, He is currently a master student at
Tsinghua University, Beijing. Her re- the School of Education, Tsinghua
search focuses on large language models and their appli- University, Beijing. His research inter-
cations in education. ests focus on paradigmatic innovation
of pedagogy leveraged by generative artificial intelli-
gence.
Zhan-Xin Hao received her B.Ed.
degree in education from Beijing Nor-
mal University, Beijing, her M.A de-
Jian-Xiao Jiang received his B.E.
gree in educational assessment from
degree in computer science and tech-
University College London, London,
nology from the Department of Com-
and her Ph.D. degree in educational
puter Science and Technology, Ts-
assessment from the University of Ox-
inghua University, Beijing, in 2023. He
ford, Oxford. She is currently a postdoctoral fellow at
is currently a master student at the
Tsinghua University’s School of Education, where her
School of Education, Tsinghua Univer-
research focuses on artificial intelligence in education.
sity, Beijing. His research leverages educational data
mining and generative AI to rigorously evaluate and ad-
vance AIED innovations.
Shang-Qing Tu received his B.E.
degree in computer science and tech-
nology from Beihang University, Bei- Shen Yang is currently a senior un-
jing, in 2022. He is currently a Ph.D. dergraduate student at the Depart-
student at the Department of Com- ment of Computer Science and Tech-
puter Science and Technology, Ts- nology, Tsinghua University, Beijing.
inghua University, Beijing. His re- His research focuses on the applica-
search focuses on large language models and their appli- tion of large language models and
cations in education. agents in education.

===== PAGE 21 =====
Ji-Fan Yu et al.: Reimagine Online Teaching and Learning Through LLM-Driven Agents 413
Fei Qin received her Ph.D. degree Lei Hou is a research associate at
in educational economics and manage- the Department of Computer Science
ment from the School of Education, and Technology, Tsinghua University,
Tsinghua University, Beijing, and is Beijing. He received his Ph.D. degree
currently a postdoctoral fellow at the in computer science and technology
School of Education, Tsinghua Univer- from Tsinghua University, Beijing, in
sity, Beijing. Her research interests fo- 2016. His research interests include
cus on AI-empowered education and student agency de- knowledge graph construction and applications and large
velopment. language models.
Ze-Kun Li received his B.E. degree
Man-Li Li is a professor at the
in data science and big data technolo-
School of Education, Tsinghua Univer-
gy from Chongqing University, Chong-
sity, Beijing. She received her Ph.D.
qing, in 2025. He is currently a mas-
degree in education from Peking Uni-
ter student at the School of Educa-
versity, Beijing, in 1998. She current-
tion, Tsinghua University, Beijing. His
ly serves as the chair of the Academic
research focuses on artificial intelli-
Committee of the School of Education,
gence in education, large language models, and multi-
Tsinghua University, Beijing. Her research interests in-
agent systems.
clude higher education, engineering education, K–12
school reform, online education, and educational equity.
Bing-Lin Liu is currently a junior
undergraduate student at the Depart-
ment of Computer Science and Tech-
Juan-Zi Li is a professor at the De-
nology, Tsinghua University, Beijing.
partment of Computer Science and
His research focuses on human-agent
Technology, Tsinghua University, Bei-
interaction.
jing. She received her Ph.D. degree in
computer science and technology from
Tsinghua University, Beijing, in 2000.
Xin Cong is an assistant professor She currently serves as the director of
at the Department of Statistics and the Knowledge Intelligence Center at the Institute for
Data Science, Tsinghua University. He
Artificial Intelligence, Tsinghua University, Beijing. Her
received his Ph.D. degree from Chi-
research interests include knowledge graphs and social
nese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, in
network mining.
2023. His research interests include
large language models, autonomous
agent, and intelligent data analysis. Hui-Qin Liu is a research fellow at
the School of Education, Tsinghua
Bin Xu is a professor at the De- University, Beijing. She received her
partment of Computer Science and Ph.D. degree in management from Ts-
Technology, Tsinghua University, Bei- inghua University, Beijing, in 2006.
jing. He received his Ph.D. degree at She currently serves as the director of
Tsinghua University, Beijing, in 2006. the Tsinghua University Engineering
He is also a distinguished member of Education Research Center, Beijing. Her research inter-
CCF and honorary chair of CCF tech- ests include higher education policy and management,
nical committee of computer applications. He is work- graduate education, engineering education, and future
ing on exciting areas of artificial intelligence. education and learning.

===== PAGE 22 =====
414 J. Comput. Sci. & Technol., Jan. 2026, Vol.41, No.1
Yu Zhang is a professor at the Mao-Song Sun is a professor at the
School of Education, Tsinghua Univer- Department of Computer Science and
sity, Beijing. She received her Ph.D. Technology, Tsinghua University, Bei-
degree in economics and education jing. He received his Ph.D. degree in
from Teachers College, Columbia Uni- computational linguistics from City
versity, New York, in 2011. She cur- University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
rently serves as Party Secretary of the in 2004. He currently serves as Execu-
School of Education, Tsinghua University, and Program tive Deputy Director of the Institute for Artificial Intel-
Chair of the “Brain, Neuroscience and Education” of the ligence, Tsinghua University, Beijng, Chair of the Com-
American Educational Research Association. Her re- puter Science degree evaluation subcommittee at Ts-
search interests include economics of education, quanti- inghua University, Beijng, and Director of the Tsinghua
tative evaluation of education policy innovation, and in- University Center for Large-Scale Online Education Re-
terdisciplinary education measurement integrating cogni- search, Beijng. His research interests include natural
tive neuroscience and machine learning. language processing, large language models, Chinese in-
formation processing, and social computing.
Zhi-Yuan Liu is a professor at the
Department of Computer Science and
Technology, Tsinghua University, Bei-
jing. He received his Ph.D. degree in
computer science from Tsinghua Uni-
versity, Beijing, in 2011. His research
interests include knowledge graphs
and semantic computing, and social computing and
computational social science.